This is a roadmap for the development of the Pure3D web-app.

There will be more refinements underway. The closer a milestone gets, the more refinement.

# Milestone 1
**Target: The Pure3D web app is capable enough to replace the sandboxes**

We entered this stage 2022-09-15. At that moment

* we had sandboxes with Voyager instances that could serve individual users and store their contributed content on a central Nextcloud instance which is backed up;
* we had pilots that manage to deploy the voyager viewer in a web server context, both for readonly (explorer mode) and for writing (story mode);
* we had a web-app called "dip" that can disseminate pure3d data;
* the pure3d data was example data, stored on a file system local to the web server.

Here is a sequence of objectives that bring us to a pure3d web-app that can replace the sandboxes.

## Pure3D app
* [x] Copy the "dip" app and call the copy "pure3d" and start developing the "pure3d" app #2022-09-16

## Authorisation
* [x] Add test users, show them on the interface, enable one-click login as one of these test users #2022-09-16
* [ ] Set up definitions for user roles, project roles, project states, user actions, and the permission rules that connect all these together.
    * [x] first as static yaml config files #2022-09-16
    * [ ] later as a mixture between yaml and mongodb contents
* [ ] Write authorisation code
    * [ ] a generic authorisation function that can answer the question: *can the current user do this action to this piece of data?* Started #2022-09-16. Will need refinement later on.
    * [ ] guard *all* data access by the authorisation function. Started #2022-09-16.
    
## Metadata
* [ ] Make a single editable metadata field at the project level. Started #2022-09-19
* [ ] Make a second editable metadata field at the project level
* [ ] Generalize: make a configurable metadata sheet at the project level (configuration in a yaml file)
* [ ] Expand: make metadata sheets for projects, editions, and media files
* [ ] Store metadata (also) in Mongodb, instead of yaml

## Workflow
* [x] Define simple states for a project: published, unpublished. Use yaml. #2022-09-16
* [ ] Make permissions dependent on the project state. Started #2022-09-16
* [ ] Make more project states, e.g. under review
* [ ] Store project state in Mongo DB and on the file system with the project

## Voyager story
* [ ] Integrate the voyager-story pilot in the pure3d app, add proper authorisation calls
* [ ] Give users WebDAV access the the files and folders in their workspace
* [ ] Take measures that concurrent users can not write to the same data
* [ ] Make sure users can add new projects and new editions

## Mongodb
* [ ] Use a Mongodb database, define collections for workflow and metadata
* [ ] Make a synch function to put the mongodb contents in sync with the contents stored on the file system and vice versa
* [ ] Define a user tables that holds the user identity keys and attributes, among which the email address
* [ ] Adapt the lookup function for users so that users can also be looked up by email address (this is for users that have been invited by email address before they were in the CLARIAH system)

## Deployment
* [ ] Deploy the pure3d webapp and the mongodb on HuC infrastructure (the dev/acc/prod servers)
* [ ] Enable backup for the mongodb contents
* [ ] Enable backup for the file system contents
* [ ] Run the flask web app under a suitable task-runner, such as Gunicorn
* [ ] Make sure global flask data is shared through the mongodb to all worker processes (worker processes must get triggers to synch their data with mongodb)

## CLARIAH authentication
* [ ] Connect CLARIAH authentication to each of these servers
* [ ] Adapt the authorisation code so that it can work with CLARIAH users as well (not only the test users)

# Milestone 2
**Target: Pure3D is an infrastructure**

When we enter this stage, the Pure3D app is essentially still a pilot.

Now we are going to make it serious by basing parts of it on powerful technologies .

## Split in DIP and SIP
Separate the Pure3D app into 
* **DIP** a part that disseminates all the published contents
* **SIP** a part that facilitates collaborative editing of projects and editions in a workspace

## Proper solution for SIP
Hunch: use new on-premise GitLab as foundational technology for collaborative workspaces.

## Proper solution for DIP
Hunch: use Netlify CMS plus a static page Generator such as Hugo plus client-side search indexes such as Lunr.

# Milestone 3
**Target: Finalize**

When we enter this stage, we have good working machinery, but the look and feel is lagging behind.

## Look and Feel
Improve the look and feel of the DIP:
* apply branding
* take care of accessibility and responsive design
* optionally: take care of multilingual capabilities

