Coal mining in the Limburg region ended in the 1960s and 1970s. To preserve this history, the Dutch Mining Museum was opened 40 years later. It was initially located at Shaft II of the Oranje Nassau I mine in Heerlen, which was the last Dutch coal mine to close in 1974. The first coal was mined here in 1898. The museum included the shaft hall, the winding tower and the winding machine house.

Since 2022, the museum has been housed in the former 'Kneepkens' department stores in the centre of Heerlen. On four floors, each dedicated to a different theme, 'product islands' are set up like in a department store to tell the story of the mining era in Limburg. The ground floor is dedicated to mining and the miners. The first floor tells of the prosperity that the coal industry brought to the region, while the second floor depicts the unsafe and unhealthy working conditions. The top floor recalls the difficult situation after mining ceased and shows how structural change was managed.

The goal of the pilot project is to digitise a portion of the Nederlands Mijnmuseum lamp collection and in so doing clarify the stories about mining history and the evolution of mining lamps. Through 3D digitisation of the lamps, together with rich and engaging descriptions of the artifacts, we can also make the public aware of the importance of mining in the Netherlands– both for those who want to know more before or after their visit to the museum, as well as for people who are not able to visit in person.

This project ensures greater accessibility and participation outside the museum walls. With these 3D models on the web, we want to develop new and fresh perspectives on these cultural artifacts and offer new ways to experience them as well. With this project we want to reach existing and new audiences with a view to enrichment and education.